# Looping Through a Collection with for

You can choose to use the `while` construct to loop over the elements of a
collection, such as an array. For example, the loop in Listing 3-4 prints each
element in the array `a`.

Filename: `src/main.rs`

```rust
fn main() {
    let a = [10, 20, 30, 40, 50];
    let mut index = 0;

    while index < 5 {
        println!("the value is: {}", a[index]);

        index += 1;
    }
}
```

Listing 3-4: Looping through each element of a collection using a `while` loop

Here, the code counts up through the elements in the array. It starts at index
`0`, and then loops until it reaches the final index in the array (that is,
when `index < 5` is no longer `true`). Running this code will print every
element in the array:

```bash
$ cargo run
   Compiling loops v0.1.0 (file:///projects/loops)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.32s
     Running `target/debug/loops`
the value is: 10
the value is: 20
the value is: 30
the value is: 40
the value is: 50
```

All five array values appear in the terminal, as expected. Even though `index`
will reach a value of `5` at some point, the loop stops executing before trying
to fetch a sixth value from the array.

However, this approach is error prone; we could cause the program to panic if
the index value or test condition is incorrect. For example, if you changed the
definition of the `a` array to have four elements but forgot to update the
condition to `while index < 4`, the code would panic. It’s also slow, because
the compiler adds runtime code to perform the conditional check of whether the
index is within the bounds of the array on every iteration through the loop.

As a more concise alternative, you can use a `for` loop and execute some code
for each item in a collection. A `for` loop looks like the code in Listing 3-5.

Filename: `src/main.rs`

```rust
fn main() {
    let a = [10, 20, 30, 40, 50];

    for element in a {
        println!("the value is: {element}");
    }
}
```

Listing 3-5: Looping through each element of a collection using a `for` loop

When we run this code, we’ll see the same output as in Listing 3-4. More
importantly, we’ve now increased the safety of the code and eliminated the
chance of bugs that might result from going beyond the end of the array or not
going far enough and missing some items.

Using the `for` loop, you wouldn’t need to remember to change any other code if
you changed the number of values in the array, as you would with the method
used in Listing 3-4.

The safety and conciseness of `for` loops make them the most commonly used loop
construct in Rust. Even in situations in which you want to run some code a
certain number of times, as in the countdown example that used a `while` loop
in Listing 3-3, most Rustaceans would use a `for` loop. The way to do that
would be to use a `Range`, provided by the standard library, which generates
all numbers in sequence starting from one number and ending before another
number.

Here’s what the countdown would look like using a `for` loop and another method
we’ve not yet talked about, `rev`, to reverse the range:

Filename: `src/main.rs`

```rust
fn main() {
    for number in (1..4).rev() {
        println!("{number}!");
    }
    println!("LIFTOFF!!!");
}
```

This code is a bit nicer, isn’t it?
